# Work packages

Work package generation is the recommended method of dealing with
exports/new content. Along with the general import and export
features, work package generation becomes available after the first
round of Scanning (Content Extraction) has finished and translatable
content (segments) has been placed in the database.

Initially, the screen will be empty, but if you click on the blue
"plus" icon, a dialog will pop up where you can generate new work
packages using a variety of settings at your disposal. Let's take a
look at them one by one.

## Work package generation 

**Work package name** You can name your work package any way you
like. As a suggestion, it is recommended that you give it a name that
accurately reflects its contents, so as to make project management
using work packages easier. So, for example, if you generate a work
package for Arabic as a target language on April 10th, 2016 for all
new content, you would name it something like
_sa-AR-untranslatedContent-2016-04-10-_ and so on.

**Source language** The source language for the project is displayed
in this field (settable from the Dashboard main screen).

**Work package language** You can add multiple target languages for
the Generation Process, but remember that a separate Work Package will
be created for each target language.

**Timeline** You can specify which Content Extraction cycle you'd like
to see in the Work Package that is to be generated. Click on "change"
and use the timeline window to specify the time period, and the
generator will limit its attention to just that timeframe. Select any
two timestamped buttons to define the start and end of the timeframe.

**Filter pages** You can use your current selection (set on the Pages
list screen), or define specific selected pages (both paths and full
URLS are allowed) or folders using path prefixes. When you use a
predefined list of pages (selected pages) the additional option of
including both the HTTP and HTTPS versions of pages will be displayed
as a checkbox.

**Options** Miscellanious options you can use to fine-tune the
properties of your Work Package. 

Split your package at preset words to create easily manageable chunks
to assign to translators. Disable it to put everything in one big file
(Note, however, that Work packages will be automatically split at
30.000 words)

You can choose to create separate work packages for hidden elements,
and set the Work package generation to automatically take care of
exporting for you. As with the general import function, you may elect
to export only those entries that have no translation yet. 

If you configured XTM, XTRF or Dropbox to integrate with the proxy,
you may instruct the software to automatically send the exported XLIFF
files to either one of those services. Use the dropdown menu to make
your choice (only available if the checkbox is checked).

## Work package list

You will receive e-mail notification about your generated work
packages and they will appear in the list. You can use the refresh
button to get an up-to-date view of your work packages.

If you hover over a work package, a floating menu will appear to the
right with two options: XLIFF export and Progress report generation.
