# Sharing settings

In the world of website localization, it is rare for a project to be
realized by a single person. As project owner or backup owner, use the
Sharing settings dialog to invite people into the project and assign
roles/editing roles to any one of them.

At the bottom of the Dialog, you will see the line, "Invite People:"
if you click on the field, the invitation settings part of the dialog
will slide up, allowing you to enter further details of the project
participant to be added. You can assign languages, enable admin/access
features and workflow roles for each user you invite. You can do this
by clicking on the blue plus icon next to each of those options. Make
your choices in the small pop-up lists. **These settings are not
final, you can change them later.**

The various **features**, (administrative rights) deserve to be
detailed, Here they are:

**All features**: every feature you see below the separator in the
list will be added for the user. Note that this has a potential to
cause problems: If, for example, you simultaneously set __Advanced
features__ and __Manage segments__, it results in an editing rights
conflict. There are security implications you need to consider when
giving your users rights, so use this feature with care.

**XLIFF export/import**: enables XLIFF export/import of segments for
the user. Especially important for those users who will be
coordinating the translation effort throughout the project.

**Receive notification e-mails**: Add user to the list of recipients
of Discovery/Content Scan/Alarm, etc notifications.

**Can invite others**: designates the user as a Project Manager, able
to invite others onto the project. Take care not to include other,
conflicting roles, such as __Customer__, which could re-restrict
access.

**Advanced features**: give the user the power to edit languages as
well as any entry in the project, and editing most setting, up to, and
including, the URL inclusion-exclusion rules. Segmentation, publishing
and certain advanced settings remain beyond the reach of the user.

**Manage segments**: in other words, the Customer is a special user
class, given the ability to manage (approve or exclude) pending source
segments. A user with these segments requires a workflow role and an
assigned target language to access the Workbench to manage
segments. **WARNING! This right restricts the user to this role,
other features will be disabled!**

**NOTE** __Features__ are predominantly important from a project
management viewpoint. __Workflow roles__, on the other hand, are used
to manage user interaction __on the Workbench__, based on expertise
(whether a user is a translator, proofreader or client will decide
what sets of segments are available to them for editing - see the
documentation of the Workbench for details).

After a user redeems their invitation using the link they receive in
an e-mail, their address and username will appear under the
owner. Their features and workflow roles can be edited in the list.
